+++
abstract = "The development of an efficient ground sampling strategy is critical to assess uncertainties associated with moderate- or coarse-resolution remote-sensing products. This work presents a comparison of estimating spatial means from fine spatial resolution images using spatial random sampling (SRS), Block Kriging (BK), and Means of Surface with Nonhomogeneity (MSN) at 1 km2 spatial scale. Towards this goal, we focus on the sampling strategies for ground data measurements and provide an assessment of the MODIS LAI product validated by the spatial means estimated by the above-mentioned three methods. The results of this study indicate that: (1) for its effective stratification strategies and its criteria of minimum mean square estimation error, MSN demonstrates the lowest mean squared estimation error for estimating the means of stratified nonhomogeneous surface; (2) BK is efficient in estimating the means of homogeneous surfaces without bias and with minimum mean squared estimation errors. The MODIS LAI product is assessed using the means estimated by SRS, BK, and MSN based on Landsat 8 OLI and SPOT HRV fine-resolution LAI maps. For heterogeneous surfaces, MSN results in low RMSE and high accuracy of MODIS LAI product compared with BK and SRS, whereas for homogeneous surfaces, the statistical parameters outputted by these three methods are similar. These results reveal that MSN is an effective method for estimating the spatial means for heterogeneous surfaces. There are differences in the accuracies of MODIS LAI product assessed by these three methods."
abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Y Ding", "Y Ge", "M Hu", "J Wang", "**JH Wang**", "X Zheng", "K Zhao"]
date = "2014-10-01"
# image_preview = "img/mountain.jpg"
math = false
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "International Journal of Remote Sensing"
publication_short = "In *International Journal of Remote Sensing*"
selected = false
title = "Comparison of spatial sampling strategies for ground sampling and validation of MODIS LAI products"
# url_code = "#"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_pdf = "files/2017-Wu-Wang-Dai-Mark-AAAG.pdf"
# url_project = "project/deep-learning/"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_preprint = ""
# url_source = "#"

[[url_custom]]
name = "DOI"
url = "http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01431161.2014.967889"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
# [header]
# image = "headers/"
# caption = "2016 - Annals AAG"

+++


